<h2>Informal Code Review:</h2>
<p>My informal code review has been added as a video file above</p>

<h2>Software Design and Engineering: </h2>
<p>I chose to enhance my computer graphics and visualization project (OpenGL 3D scene) where my goal was to use OpenGL libraries to create a 3D model from a 2D image. You can see the original project <a href="https://github.com/TyannaPrince/OpenGL-enhanced-3D-scene" target="_blank"> HERE</a></p>

<h1>Narratives:</h1>
<h2>Enhancements</h2>
<p>This artifact is an enhancement of an OpenGL project that I initially created in December of 2022 for my CS 330 Computer Graphics and Visualization class. The project is a 3D scene with requirements to have at least one complex shape and light source. I completed the project with several of each. The scene was created using Visual Studio and OpenGL libraries. It depicts a table as a plane with a tablet, pen, coffee cup, some Hershey kisses, and a plant sitting on the table. I used math-based algorithms such as Scene Builder and Shape Builder to make the shapes and the overall scene. I chose this artifact as it can showcase many of my skills in one artifact and also satisfies all the requirements of the current course without the use of multiple projects. OpenGL is a cross-platform, hardware-accelerated, language-dependent, industrial standard API for producing 3D graphics. It makes use of a computer’s GPU mixed with its own memory to speed up graphics rendering. It makes use of libraries with hundreds of commands to model objects. The use of linear algebra algorithms as well as c ++ algorithms and array databases are mainly used when creating objects with OpenGL. OpenGL can be used with other languages such as Python as well but c ++ is the recommended language.</p> 
   <p>When starting this project, I ran into some issues from the beginning. Since making this project I have upgraded my computer and no longer have access to the old PC which had the files for this project. Some project files were missing, and I was unable to get the program back up and running and had to start the project over. Although not fully from scratch I had to redo the majority of the .h and .cpp files. I only had access to the shapebuilder.cpp and main.cpp files. This project was difficult to do in my previous class, so I had to brush up on my knowledge of OpenGL by watching some tutorials which were extremely helpful in getting me back on track. Some enhancements from my plan were not covered by my OpenGL course and were out of my scope and I needed to watch additional tutorials on how to create a cube map in order to bring the background to life. This included me having to learn the advanced IO and organize the input managers into classes. I also incorporated the use of joysticks as functionality into the project. I had to learn ASSIMP as well for this. When incorporating a virtual background, I had to learn and implement instancing and VBO updating, Octree, Bounding regions, and collisions, as well as freetype. I couldn’t implement a picture as my background, so I had to create a skybox and cube map from scratch. This took a substantial amount of time to do. Since I could not use an image, I made the background a city area with snowfall.  I also implemented the use of character movement instead of just the simple WASD movements.</p>
    <p> The only thing I was not able to implement into the project was adding another object to the table. Although I was not able to add an additional object, I did add other enhancements to make up for this. That was the moving snowfall as well as the character movement throughout the scene. During the enhancement, I learned so much more about OpenGL. My previous knowledge was that of a beginner and now I know more advanced techniques and algorithms such as spotlight shadows, point shadows, normal mapping, tangent spaces, collision models, adding in collision meshes, as well as polling and interrupts. The overall project was difficult to accomplish and I ran into a lot of issues in the process but I was able to overcome them one by one.</p>
    <p>With OpenGL you use visual, sorting, and mathematical algorithms to create your 3D scene. Creating objects and 3D models in OpenGL is object-oriented data structures with the OpenGL graphics system. this project shows my structure and perimeter designs inside a 3D world. This includes mathematics and dimensions written in code that demonstrates the design of this world. For data structures and algorithms, I demonstrate textures being placed and wrapped around an object specifically a 3D construct. The shape and structure of each object demonstrate a data structure. I am able to expand and create new data structures with new textures and constructs. </p>
    <p>I demonstrate databases by adding additional OpenGL libraries in the new design. Adding movement of objects such as the snowfall in a city brought the 3D model to life. Array data structures were also used throughout the code which stores items at contiguous memory locations. GitHub is also a database to which this project was uploaded as well as my GitHub pages website. </p>
    
    

